Tags: [[EDR and XDR]], [[SIEM]], [[Log-Analysis]], [[IDS-IPS]], [[SOC]], [[Incident Response]]

## What is it?

- The endpoint is the device used by the user

## Additional Information
 
- Edge vs Access control
	- Control the edge
		- Your internet link
		- Managed primarily through firewall rules
	- Access control
		- Control from wherever you are
		- Access can be based on many rules
			- User, group, location, application
		- Access can be easily revoked or changed
			- Change your security posture at any time
- Posture assessment
	- You can't trust everyone's computer
		- BYOD (bring your own device)
		- Malware infections / missing anti-malware
		- Unauthorized apps
	- Before connecting to the network, perform a health check
		- Is it a trusted device?
		- Is it running anti-virus? which one? Is it updated?
		- Are the corporate applications installed?
		- Is it a mobile device? is the disk encrypted?
		- The type of device doesn't matter - Windows, linux, mac, ios, android
- Health checks / posture assessment
	- Persistent agents
		- Permanently installed onto a system
		- Periodic updates may be required
	- Dissolvable agents
		- No installation is required
		- Runs during the posture assessment
		- Terminates when no longer required
	- Agentless NAC
		- Integrated with Active Directory
		- Checks are made during login and logoff
		- Can't be scheduled
- Failing your assessment
	- Quarantine network, notify administrators
	- Once resolved, try again
- EDR (endpoint detection and response)
	- A different method of threat protection
		- Scale to meet the increasing number of threats
	- Detect a threat
		- Signatures aren't the only detection tool
		- Behavioral analysis, machine learning, process monitoring
		- Lightweight agent on the endpoint
	- Investigate the threat
		- Root cause analysis
	- Respond to the threat
		- Isolate the system, quarantine the threat, rollback to the previous config
		- API driven, no user or technician intervention required
- XDR (Extended detection response)
	- An evolution of EDR
		- Improve missed detection, false positives and long investigation times
		- Attacks involve more the just the endpoint
	- Add network-based detection
	- Correlate endpoint, network and cloud data
	- User behavior analytics
		- Watch users, hosts, network traffic, data repositories etc
		- Creates a baseline or normal activity
		- Requires data analysis over an extended period
	- Watch for anything unusual
		- Use a set of rules, pattern matching, statistical analysis
	- Real-time detection of unusual activity

## Related Notes



## References