Tags: [[Risk-Management]], [[Compliance]]

## What is it?

- A systematic process that predicts the consequences of disruptions to business operations, identifying critical functions, and defining recovery requirements to ensure continuity

## Additional Information

- Recovery
	- RTO (Recovery time objective)
		- Get up and running quickly
		- Get back to a particular service level
		- ==It is the targeted duration== of time within which a business process must be restored after a disruption in order to avoid unacceptable consequences.
			- "AcmeBank recently performed a business impact analysis for its online banking system. The result indicated that the bank could tolerate a maximum downtime of 4 hours for the system before incurring significant financial losses and customer dissatisfaction."
			- ==This 4 hours is the RTO==, the duration of time while restoring that is acceptable before consequences are no longer acceptable
			- IF IT IS TOLERABLE OR THE TARGET BEFORE A IRREVERSIBLE LOSS IT IS RTO
				- "Targeted duration," "Goal for restoration," or "Service level"
	- RPO (Recovery point objective)
		- How much data loss is acceptable?
		- Bring the systems back online; how far back does data go?
		- The database is up, but only provides the last twelve months of data
		- ==It is the maximum age of files that an organization must recover from backup== storage for normal operations to resume after a disaster.
			- WebFlix, a popular online movie streaming service, experienced a data center outage due to a natural disaster. They had backups in place and restored their systems using data from 6 hours prior to the outage. This resulted in the loss of some user interactions, like ratings and watchlists from the last 6 hours.
			- ==This lost 6 hours of data is the RPO==, the duration of data-time lost that is still acceptable and planned
			- Since the back-up was PLANNED for 6 hours back, that is the RPO
	- MTTR (Mean time to repair)
		- Average time required to fix an issue
			- This includes time spent diagnosing the problem
		- It represents the average time needed to fix a failed component
			- After a recent security breach, CyberSolutions Inc. evaluated their response metrics and determined that, on average, it took 4 hours from identifying a security breach to having it completely resolved.
			- ==This 4 hours that sums the diagnosis and workaround is the MTTR==, an average of how much time it is needed for everything to be back up
	- MTBF (Mean time between failures)
		- The time between outages
		- Can be used as a prediction or calculated based on historical performance
		- It is is a measure of how reliable hardware or a system is. It’s the average time that passes from one failure to the next.
			- WebServ Corp., a web hosting company, has been analyzing the reliability of its servers. They found that one of their server models, on average, tends to fail once every 2000 hours and then gets promptly repaired.
			- ==This average of 1 fail every 2000 hours is the MTBF==, an average of how much a system can fail within continuous hours of work
	- MTD (Maximum Tolerable Downtime)
		- How long until it is IRREPARABLE?
		- ==It needs to be irreparable and final==, if it is only significant and dissatisfactory, then it is probably RTO
			- "Absolute maximum," "Irreparable harm," or "Survival limit"
		- On security+, most times it is RTO and not MTD so be careful

## Related Notes



## References